---
layout: imgpost
title:  "The problem with advising"
date:   2018-04-06
categories: blog
image: /assets/images/speech.jpg
---

I opened the elegantly silent door to the lecture hall and entered the optimally air conditioned high ceiling room. I sat at the edge of a middle row among the low mur-mur of talking students. The talk had not started yet. The alumni who was to speak to the recipients of Academic Excellence awards was sitting in the first row besides one or two professors. I knew him and did not have high hopes for this talk, I was here just to get the award. I had met him at some other place a few years ago and knew that he was kind of person who would say that we should live this way because he did so and that he is an important person. Or may be it’s just me.

I do not want to repeat to you the boring experience of me trying to study the shape of my nails while the even boring talk went on for about half an hour on the connection between passion and happiness. I rather want to make a brief comment on the problem with such theoretical and idealistic advising sessions about life. It is not about how good or bad the talk was; it is about was it any good at all?

There are several things wrong about the listener trying to follow what the advisor says. The most striking one is that the message is essentially an ideological summary of the meaning of the advisor’s life as he processed it to be. This is a totally non-invertible function — I mean it is not possible to map the ideological summary (what the listener got) to the raw experience that the advisor finds useful and bases his advice upon. The listener has his own point of view and a unique filter through which he views the world; and as these messages arrive, one or two pass through. What the listener gets is all smeared in the sticky substance of which the filter is made up of. Sometimes, it seems to fit into his problems and the listener becomes amazed at the ‘wisdom’ of the advisor.

Essentially, the conversation suffers from subjectivity of the very idea it is to address. It lacks invariance (if I may); in other words, it is unscientific in its attitude because the advice seems so ‘religious’ in nature. I mean the advisor fails to be helpful the moment he starts propagating general ideological summaries about an axis of his own life. The irony is that the advisor who wants to help the listener is being narcissistic.

Practical advice rules!

Image source: [Photo by Luis Quintero from Pexels][imgsrc]

[imgsrc]:        https://www.pexels.com/photo/grayscale-photography-of-people-sitting-on-chair-inside-building-2774566/