---
layout: imgpost
title:  "Dull"
date:   2019-01-16
categories: blog
image: /assets/images/dull.jpg
---

It is a lazily fresh feeling every morning — looking thoughtlessly out the window, that face of yours that no one has seen, the you that no one knows. It last only till the moment you come to your senses — realizing that how pointless are we. A part of you regrets waking up for a fraction of second before you overwhelm it with ideas about the day ahead. That regret originates not in laziness. It is much more fundamental, somewhat existential. It seems as if a part of you is saying, “… and the drama begins all over again”.

The phantasmagoria of the dreams last night lingers in the back somewhere creeping you out, and you suddenly stand up reaching for your toothbrush. The drama is what keeps you going or, if put bluntly, keeps you distracted. In these moments we understand that there is something fundamentally dull about life, an elaborately boring design.

Ah! It’s evening again. It happens with me quite often that I am staring at a random point in space, just looking without observing, with eyes wide open. I am aware of doing it. It feels awkwardly relaxing not to turn away. The point of focus is somewhere between my eyes and the object they fall on. I guess the distractions of reality fail to distract me sometimes and I am left hanging somewhere between myself and everything else. I wish it had some stylish spiritual significance, but nah… it just feels dull.

I guess… that’s just life…

Image source: [Image by PublicDomainPictures from Pixabay][imgsrc]

[imgsrc]: https://pixabay.com/photos/rain-children-sad-bored-view-20242/