---
layout: imgpost
title:  "Failure"
date:   2019-04-03
categories: blog
image: /assets/images/failure.jpg
---

Imagine you are buried deep underground, without a coffin. You can feel the weight of the dirt upon you. In fact, when you think about it, it is way too much to bear, but somehow you are bearing it. It is dark in here, obviously. There does not seem to be any room to move, just a little maybe — you are not sure if you are able to move or not. Despite this overwhelmingly encumbered situation, there is a detail that stands out above all. Conspicuous, and so much so that you might as well ignore all other details and just consider this one aspect of the fix you are in.

It’s the pain in the chest.

The pain is not sharp yet it seems somewhat concentrated around the center of the chest — a kind of vortex spiraling down to the stomach. The entire weight of all the dirt above seems to act on that spot. Too much to let out a moan, too slow to surprise you, too significant to ignore, too diffused to point out…

You are gritting your teeth trying to summon the strength to face the agony. It does not seem necessary though but you do it anyway because you do not know whether it is you striving to bear this pain or the inevitability of the pain that explains how you are able to face it. It is frustrating, painful, hard… adjectives just don’t seem to capture it. That is how you feel upon failing to get what you wanted the most. You have been waiting for years to get it and imagining your life with it. Now that you realize that reality is so far away from your dreams, this is how you feel on the inside. It is a seamless composition of the weight of the soil, the somewhat focused weight, the inability to move and the frustration.

On the outside, however, you are trying to have a casual conversation with this guy in front of you. It seems hard to be there mentally, you seem to phase in and out of the conversation. You feel sure that your face is betraying your pain and breaking your composure. You try too hard to make casual statements to patch your persona in a slapdash manner. You hide it with all your might as if you have done a crime, you hide your true reaction to the failure.

Failure… hurts…

Image source: [Image by Free-Photos from Pixabay][imgsrc]

[imgsrc]: https://pixabay.com/photos/sad-depressed-depression-sadness-505857/