---
layout: imgpost
title:  "The Red-arc"
date:   2019-12-15
categories: blog
image: /assets/images/redarc.jpg
---

The small boy stood on the third landing of the narrow stairs, looking across the narrow corridor towards a small box mounted on the opposite wall. His mother stood on the next higher landing, because the stairs were too narrow for standing side-by-side, laying a hand on his shoulder, squinting at the same box. In the background, one could hear the low rumble of the ‘cooler’ — a fan which blows cool air by passing air through wet porous grass curtains to lower its temperature. The rumble had been heard after the heat in the room was unbearable as it was more than 40 degree Celsius outside.

There was a small port in that box which showed a small outer section of a black disk. The black disk had a white circle on it. A small arc of that circle was red, so you knew the disk was rotating because you saw the red-arc pass-by the slot at regular intervals. What they both were so intently staring at was how frequently did that red-arc pass by the slot.

She asked him to go and turn-off the cooler to see if they could notice the difference.

It was an electric meter. Each pass meant consumption of some unit of electricity. The cooler took a lot of energy, at least much more than a fan or a light. So, all that staring was, bluntly put, a desperate attempt to justify the use of the cooler for an hour or two.

The boy came back to the landing after turning it off and started looking at the box again. The difference was clearly visible, the red-arc came after noticeably longer intervals. His mother stated the obvious and they went back to the room.

The boy started eating his lunch. She turned-on the cooler, turned it towards him and came and sat beside him on the bed.

Image source: [Image by Free-Photos from Pixabay][imgsrc]

[imgsrc]: https://pixabay.com/photos/hydro-meter-electricity-blue-box-691809/