---
layout: imgpost
title:  "I'll always remember"
date:   2019-05-08
categories: blog
image: /assets/images/boy.jpg
---

I remember when I was little, I used to go to a tuition in the evening. I used to walk the distance with my mother. It was a fairly long walk, around 15 minutes, and I realize today that my mother used to cover double the distance that I covered. She used to come back to the house after leaving me there and come again when my class was over. There is no story, just this memory. There is nothing sad about it. She is alive today and healthy. Then why do I feel this slight pain when thinking about it, is nostalgia supposed to hurt…

As a child, my parents celebrated my birthday in a manner that was much more fun than whatever I do now. I remember they used to buy me new clothes on each birthday and there was this ritual of clicking photos while each person ate cake from my hands. It was a Kodak camera, one of those models in which small cylindrical reels were put in. There would be special dinner on that night and people would bring me gifts. None of this was fancy of course, we were a lower middle class family. The gifts would include stuff like a board game, a pencil box, a lunch box, water bottle, etc. Many of those water bottles ended up as pots for money plant (also called Ceylon creeper or taro vine). Most expensive gifts were often from my parents only. I remember all my toys… My parents did so much for me… These are happy memories, then why does it hurt to think about them…

Oh, this last one hurts even more. One time in the evening my mom returned from somewhere I don’t remember and she excitedly told me that she saw a new kind of game in a family’s home today. She said that there comes a kind of video game that can connect to the TV and you play it with a wired remote. I was so awestruck, I had only heard about it and to think that my mom had seen it made me really excited. She promised me to buy it for me if I studied well. I can still hear that pleading request in my ears when I asked her again to buy it for me — I was just confirming that she was serious about it. And next year, there it was… my first Nintendo. It was not an original one of course, but there were these much cheaper Chinese ones in the market that were good enough. I had immediately fallen in love with it and had so much fun. It had cost a lot of money as far as I remember, several hundred rupees and my happiness was mixed with this guilt that I was buying such expensive toys. I also remember buying my first game cassette some time later, it had cost 60 rupees and after buying all the household essentials my mother had a little more than that. I was scolded for asking for such stuff — it was unbelievable to her that after buying an expensive video game you had to spend more money to buy new games. I still remember being angry at a friend of mine who had told me that one can buy those for not more than 25–30 rupees and that was the argument that I had used to convince my mom to buy it, hence, the scolding. Nevertheless, they provided me everything… I sometimes doubt if I deserved such an amazing set of parents… And now when I think about it all, the nostalgia hurts ever so slightly, the kind of pain that you feel after crying over something, I don’t know about others but my nostalgia does hurt… It hurts like crying with a smile …

Happy Anniversary Mom and Dad… I would be a total failure if I did not have parents as awesome as you…

Image source: [Image by StockSnap from Pixabay][imgsrc]

[imgsrc]: https://pixabay.com/photos/boy-child-kid-family-parent-926103/