---
layout: imgpost
title:  "I'm friends with the monster"
date:   2020-01-16
categories: blog
image: /assets/images/edm.jpg
---
The EDM was booming. The crowd was loud but the speakers were louder. The air smelled of dust, drugs and deodorants. Izo stood in the center of the crowd gazing listlessly at the dance of lights up ahead. The setting was clearly failing to create the intended effect on him, unlike all other youths in that concert.

Izo always had a tussle with reality. It always differed from anything he imagined, and he imagined a great deal. Before college he imagined himself with a group of boys and girls attending loud dance parties, clicking cool photos and then, in several imaginary scenarios, he was finding a beautiful girl and spending time with her after the party. He would forget his surroundings day dreaming about this college life. When he was deep-diving in these dreams, he would find himself teleported to school instead of having walked all the way. He was quite skilled in being absent-minded, something that was not entirely unrelated to his tussle with reality.

And here he was standing all alone at the rear end of the crowd. The only people that stand at the rear are either those that are stupid enough to attend a phone call during a concert, or those that keep switching frequently between looking at their phone and intently searching the people around them — signalling that they are not alone, they are simply trying to locate their friends. Izo’s hands were in his pockets. He had a strong impulse to take out his phone and pretend to be a part of one of these groups, but he didn’t. He simply stared at the stage up ahead and, intermittently, stole a glance from girls in the countless circles of friends in the crowd.

One girl, in particular, pleased his eye. She was standing a few meters to his right (belonging to the friend searching group of the rear end of the crowd). There was nothing to think about, Izo started walking towards her, neither too fast nor too slow — at a confident pace. He approached her and, looking into her eyes, said “Hi!”. She replied the same and then both started staring towards the stage — the dancing lights seemed to be a pictorial representation of their anxiety.

“You are looking for your friends?” Izo asked, with an air of wisdom.
“Yes. They left without me. No one is picking up their phone now.”, she replied.
After a few seconds of silence, he charmingly said, “Well they aren’t here. I am sure we can more than make up for not being able to find each other’s friends”
She smiled and then laughed in a way that made Izo’s heart jump inside him. They started walking towards the crowd trying to find the right spot.

The beat stopped. The DJ was saying whatever they say in between the concert. Izo turned and couldn’t find that girl again. He took out his phone and found that the internet was already on, there were no notifications, no texts. He pocketed his hands and started staring at the stage again. Nothing had changed… nothing at all. He was standing at the same spot.

Izo could hear reality trying to control his devilish laughter and ostentatiously failing in his attempt to do so. He started to walk towards the exit. Alone.


Image source: [Image by Free-Photos from Pixabay][imgsrc]

[imgsrc]: https://pixabay.com/photos/crowd-of-people-crowd-people-blur-1209630/